as it's needless to say that I am really
happy to have positive response to my
first two videos on a Song of Ice and
Fire
it's an understatement to say my channel
is not known for talking about Game of
Thrones in A Song of Ice and Fire
anyone who subscribed to this channel
because they liked those first two
videos his problem is shocked and
horrified that more than ten videos on
totally unrelated topics since then
almost totally about vegan politics and
my approach to Song of Ice and Fire is
largely political it's putting an
emphasis and I guess the political and
ethical questions raised by the text
because that's what I find to be the
most interesting and most rewarding part
of the story um a lot of people have
made videos on a psychoactive fire for
many months or for many years before
getting the kind of audience that I got
right away so again thank you guys for
showing up and many people wrote in to
me to say that they wanted me to make
more videos of this kind would that
having been said I would never become
the sort of channel that tries to upload
one video every week on a southern Ice
and Fire
I'm not gonna cast shade on other
channels but I think you know there are
many other channels that try to have
something original to say about this
work of literature every week or even
every day and it gets a bit ridiculous
even some of the podcasts that don't
work to a strict schedule I notice a big
difference between what they were
uploading when they first started
talking about it when they were
sincerely you know excited to be saying
things that I felt hadn't but said
before things they felt they needed to
say and as their enthusiasm dwindled as
that were struggling to come up with
themes they they felt they needed to
explore or points they needed to make to
respond to some of the criticism of God
which has been constructive meaningful
criticism on the whole I think that a
lot of you may not have background in I
don't mean to say like that in script
writing there's a popular concept that's
just called the one line fix and I'm
going to say this is industry standard
terms when you talk to people who do
work in script writing or I don't know
any kind of commercial writing um a
one-line fix is not a retcon a one-line
fix means you have a character
acknowledge something that result that
resolves a problem into continuity so I
do not watch I don't watch movies period
I was gonna say I don't watch mainstream
movies I have not watched any of the
movies from this generation I have not
watched any of the x-men movies or
Avengers movies or anything like that
but I'm told I've read an example of
this was that in the recent Iron Man
movies apparently the conclusion to one
of the Iron Man movies apparently the
the least popular of the Iron Man movies
had the main character resolving that he
was going to stop being Iron Man he was
going to give up playing this role which
obviously is inconvenient for the
sequels and for the later Avengers
movies or something some other movies
that came out of that can I've seen none
of this stuff but um you know the
writers in a later movie simply put in a
one-line fix so apparently there's one
line where that character Iron Man sits
down and reflects well you know I
thought I was gonna quit being Iron Man
but I just decided I wasn't gonna do it
that's it it's not a retcon it's a one
line fix a lot of you seem to criticize
my approach to the books and you think
you can predict what George or Martin is
gonna do in the books because you you
seem to think that a one line fix is
impossible whereas it's not only
possible it's entirely standard normal
in the industry you know how is it
possible that Ned Stark at the end of
the Civil War that put Robert Baratheon
in power how is it possible that he was
on the East Coast
getting a fisherwoman pregnant a
fisherman's wife pregnant fisherman's
daughter pregnant member of the fishing
community on the East Coast how is it
possible he got her pregnant while he
was supposed to be somewhere else at the
same time how is it possible that he had
that baby on the East Coast at the same
time John snow exists that hurts at her
if George wants to he can put in a
one-line fix he can have somebody
reflect oh you know during the war
people were trying to assassinate Ned
Stark so he had a doppelganger he had
someone pretending to be him and that
guy went to the East Coast and got this
woman pregnant done if you want to it's
not a retcon you just have an
explanation dropped him like you're from
the plot that's only one line long that
resolves all the securities result so if
he wants to on the other hand he could
make a big deal out of it the other hand
he could decide that Jon Snow is in fact
genuinely the son of this fisherman's
wife to you know shocked us all that Jon
Snow is not of Noble
blood that he's the result of Ned Stark
having a love affair when he was on the
East Coast in those circumstances and he
would in effect reproach the audience
for ignoring the importance of that
story which is spelled out to us in a
very factual way it's not presented to
us you know there's no reason to suspect
that story is false when it's presented
us in the plot it could be that is Jon
Snow's real origin and that you know the
story of Liana and Lee Anna's kid is
actually unrelated that it's not linked
to Jon Snow so you know he can do that
if he wants to ah in this way I mean
especially given the highly improvised
and loose structure of the book the fact
that he made things up as he went along
I think we're likely to see quite a few
plot threads quite a through suggests a
few suggestive possibilities of that
kind resolved and discarded through a
one-line fix and you know George is
entitled but that makes the story even
more predictable if what you're trying
to do is predict it so this video I'm
going to talk about Cersei Lannister and
a little bit about Jaime Lannister but I
mean I think the other point is unlike
some other you know podcasters and you
know video makers etc I don't think I
don't think that predicting what happens
next in the plot is really the most
meaningful way for us to apply our minds
of these books I think that the ethical
questions the political questions of the
thematic questions are more worth
answering so I'll give you one now that
a zero predictive power I think it's
remarkable and I think it just reflects
that most people read the book so many
years ago and they forgot what happened
in the books you know no offense but so
many years and so many thousands of
pages I think it's remarkable that right
now there's this kind of widespread
consensus that the point of the book
somatically is to present a Tyrion and
Tywin the conflict between the father
and the son to to present this as a very
simple good versus evil dichotomy that
the father is evil and that the son is
good now
again this isn't just because of the TV
show or something I think this is
because in memory in retrospect people
really simplify what that plot shows us
what it tells us about Tyrion so Tyrion
is the dwarf is the son and sorry Tywin
is the father I say that because the
names
genuinely confusing they're so they're
so similar alright well you know how
would you feel if you were the father
and you knew through your spies you knew
for a fact that your son had done what
the son did in this story in this story
it isn't merely the case people seem to
simplify this in retrospect it isn't
merely the case that Tyrion slept with a
prostitute
that's a great simplification Tyrion
fell in love with a prostitute and when
he met the prostitutes pimp he had
ordered this pimp murdered chopped up
and put into a stew the corpse of this
guy was you know sold in the market and
eaten by human beings okay if you were
the father of this kid if you knew this
now again how he knows it is another
question many people feel that bran is
actually in the employ of the father and
not just in the employ of the son
doesn't matter but this kind of conduct
on the part of your son these are not
trivial indulgences this isn't just that
your son drinks too much this isn't just
that your son is short and ugly and bad
with women okay this isn't just that
your son is sleeping with a prostitute
okay
these are to say this is a serious
ethical transgression is understatement
it's murder and it's worse than murder
and it's murder that wasn't motivated by
any good reason in that same period back
when Tyrion is still in King's Landing
and when Tywin is watching him in his
conduct as hand of the king Tyrion shows
absolutely no interest in the starvation
of the common people inside the city now
I think that the author included that
for many different reasons I think
there's a very intentional contrast
between the way different characters
respond to food scarcity the pressure of
the possibility of starvation I think
very intentionally were shown that
Tyrion has these sort of haughty
aristocratic attitudes as if people
starving is sort of a natural and
inevitable part of war and that's part
of the problem with the peasants do you
leave the peasants to deal with it and
he just goes back to his castle he goes
back to the Red Keep and he eats a
sumptuous meal which is described in
great detail not accidentally by the
author he
lives in privilege and he just doesn't
pay the slightest attention to the
reality of starvation that's of course
very much linked to the war conditions
around him by contrast John snow up in
the north even though we can't really
solve the problem John snow is really
concerned with servation even though the
people starving are not his
responsibility
John snow is not in that part of the
book he's not king of the north John
snow is only the lord commander of the
wall he's only responsible for giving
food to people inside the wall not to
the peasants outside it he genuinely has
no responsibility if the peasants or the
wildlings are starving but he cares
okay now that contrast is not obvious
because there are thousands of pages in
between I'm sorry I've not counted the
number of pages and for some people
decades so many years passed between
them that when they read those books
that the moral point of that is is lost
but you know in terms of Tyrion and
Tywin and House Lannister generally the
idea that the father is simply evil and
the son is simply good it's not true at
all and again you have to you have to
put yourself in that position how would
you feel if that was your son I look I
mean my youtube channel is full of
morality lectures if I found out that my
son had murdered a pimp because he was
in love with that pimps prostitute to
say I would harshly condemn him is an
understatement
and you know to me this is totally
unforgivable
it's not the only you know immoral and
forgivable thing that Tyrion does in
that part of the books that Tyrion does
before his father dies before he murders
his own father um so I just say this in
this way it's interesting to me that
right now in 2016 2016 there's 20 17
starts we're now in the last few days of
um I think that many of the characters
thematically have become misunderstood
and I think that's more interesting more
important than talking about them in
terms of plot points or in terms of
predicting what happens next in the plot
um okay so turning my attention now to
Cersei what I want to say about Cersei
is really very simple
and it illustrates these
um Cersei Lannister right now
the end of 2016 2017 it's somewhat
hilarious to me that so many people read
her plot as currently showing a woman
who is going to have to take
responsibility for and face up to the
consequences for burning down the red
keep I'm sorry mixing up a book and show
sorry in the TV show she doesn't burn
down the red keep in the TV show she
blows up the great Sept of Baelor but
any case in both the book and the show
it is very clearly foreshadowed in the
book it's very clearly for sure she's
gonna light something on fire she's
gonna burn down some part of the city
and kill a lot of people before the TV
show tackled those themes and showed us
Cersei burning down the great Sept of
Baelor a lot of people already saw that
coming they assumed that was built into
the plot etc what I thought was
interesting is that currently when he
talked to people 2016-2017 I think
they've forgotten many of the major plot
points many of the thematic issues that
are raised with Cersei and in the books
and they seem to regard this as a
turning point her story where she is now
going to be you know in effect
interrogated by the public or you know
in some sense put on trial there'll be a
question for taking responsibility for
this act of terrorism that has
completely transformed the political
landscape in this fictional universe and
to me what's interesting is when I read
the same material I think the point is
the exact opposite what Cersei has shown
us again and again is that she's someone
who refuses to take responsibility for
actions anything she is really guilty of
she will blame other people for and if
you don't accept the blame she casts on
other people she will take you captive
and torture you to death
so her use of torture I think is
tremendously thematically important her
use of the lie is tremendously
thematically important and that she is
basically a dictator who rules by the
lie and anyone who doesn't accept her
lies is torture to death so we had a
great example that in the books that is
not in a TV show when Cersei plotted to
assassinate one of her political rivals
from Dorne and she wanted to blame the
assassination on her brother
and to have the the assassins chance her
brother's name so that people would
believe there was some kind of rebel
group being led by her brother in the
countryside of Westeros it's totally
absurd the whole nature of the lie is
absolutely ridiculous but she comes up
with these lies she enforces them
brutally and I think in many ways she
raises themes that are familiar from
historical figures such as Joseph Stalin
and well okay let's just leave it Stalin
but you know Lenin and Stalin we're the
nature of the political persecution the
nature of you know people being wiped
out etc um either you are on Cersei side
or she is going to put you in a dungeon
and torture you until you agree with her
version of the story or she's gonna
eliminate you and I think the books are
much more likely to trade in those
themes where everyone is forced to
accept the lie that Cersei is not
responsible quite possible she would
blame Tyrion quite possible she would
blame Stannis she claimed the followers
of Stannis Baratheon who worshiped the
red God who worshiped this scary foreign
God that they are responsible for
burning down the great Sept of Baelor
for carrying out this act of terrorism
etc etc so those themes are also built
into the books and again it's just
interesting to me that the books have
been long enough that people have
forgotten that people have completely
lost track of really what who Cersei is
and what the point of her story is and
again I don't mean plot points I really
mean thigh matically politically
ethically who she is what question she
raises for us as readers um so one final
thing to say in this video because I
don't have so much to say here I do
think it's interesting that Cersei her
plot is very clearly foreshadowed
in a sense we know what's gonna happen
in Cersei storyline many many ways even
with the TV show even with out with the
TV show revealing to us some things that
are gonna happen we know in many ways
what's in Circe's future partly through
prophecy partly through foreshadowing
etc etc by contrast we do not know at
all what's gonna happen with Jaime her
brother Jaime Lannister the plot there
is very unpredictable but in Jamie's
case the thematic and ethical point of
his storyline is very clear whereas in
Circe's case is very unclear
you know it's very easy to see in terms
of Jamie's character there's a
redemption story there's an ethical
point to his plot etc etc we all we all
know that but we have no idea what he's
gonna do what's gonna happen next his
storyline currently as 2016 ends with a
cliffhanger and really nobody knows
what's gonna happen um nobody could
possibly sketch out what's gonna happen
next in storyline but in the end with
Cersei in Circe's case we do know what's
gonna happen but what we don't know is
why it matters but we don't know is what
it means
politically I always thought it was
somewhat hilarious that people have been
naming their kids after Daenerys there
are more and more kids in America who
have names like Khaleesi but if you read
the books you think look this is really
a very morally murky character there a
lot of gray areas in what she's doing
and why she's doing him what's gonna
happen next there's no reason to think
she's gonna be a morally pure or morally
positive character by the end of the
story almost nobody is in these books
I'm just too sophisticated for that uh I
have not heard of anyone named ngey
especially not using this spelling of
Cersei I do know one woman whose name is
Cersei who was not named after the books
and it's not spelled that way um but I
don't know III doubt that the point is
gonna be just to make Cersei into a
caricature of the evil dictator but
definitely some of the aspects of
dictatorship including I mean we can't
under 8 we can't underestimate the
significance of torture itself as a
theme and an issue that's explored
throughout these books the years when
these books were written george RR
martin was reflecting on the united
states use of torture sort of the same
as everyone else like so many other
people in america was such a huge issue
in american politics and you know I
think his background he was reflecting
back on the memories the Vietnam War the
memories of the Irish troubles the Irish
Civil War the use of torture in Ireland
and then also the use of torture by the
United States in Iraq Afghanistan
Guantanamo Bay etc so these were themes
that were really hanging in the air and
I do think that Cersei Lannister more
than any other character has got to be
the laboratory where the author shows us
what he thinks about this or you know
reflects further on the ethics and even
the practical consequences
having a kingdom in which the truth is
decided by one person holding the reins
of power and being willing to torture
anyone to death who disagrees with her